Hello, everyone, this is going to be a very quick listen.
We're just going to make a few tiny edits related to the blog section.
Let's dive right in.
So I'm on the homepage of our Web site.
And in our previous lesson, we wrote Code to pull in dynamic content here, the two most recent posts.
But we forgot to update this button that reads view all blog posts.
When someone clicks on this link or button, it should take them to the slash blog page.
But at the moment, if I click that link, it just takes me to the top of the page because it's HSF
value is just a placeholder hash tag.
So let's fix this link right now in the text editor.
Let's jump in to front page dot BHP and let's scroll down until we see that blog area.
So here's the piece we wrote in our previous lesson.
So just right below that, here is that button or link that reads view all blog posts.
So let's just adjust the address, delete the placeholder hash tag and instead drop to P and then echo
out the results of a function named site U.
RL.
Now, without any arguments, this function will return an absolute Eurail to the root of our domain.
But if we include an argument, we can say slash blog and the function will just append that to the
end of the root of our domain so we can save that and then refresh.
And now when I click on this button, perfect.
Takes us to the blog page.
Now let's change gears.
The only other edit I want to make in this lesson has to do with the blog link up in our header navigation.
Right.
Because if I go back to the home page and then if I try to click on that blog link, it doesn't work.
So to fix that, let's jump into our text editor and open up our header file.
So here I see a NAV element that is the header navigation.
And here's the list item in Link for blog.
So let's just update the atrip value.
Instead of a hardcoded hash tag, you could just copy and paste what we wrote just a moment ago, but
it's almost just as quick to type it out.
So echo out the results of Site You URL.
And we don't just want the root of our domain, we want to add on blog.
Cool.
So if I save that refresh now, I can use that link up in the header to visit the blog section.
However, our work is not complete yet because remember, we want our header navigation to show you
which page you are currently on.
Right.
If I click on about us, noticed that it stays lit up as a subtle yellow colour to indicate that that's
where you are.
So we would want the same thing to happen with the blog link once you click on blog.
That link should stay lit up as yellow as long as you're reviewing the generic blog listing or an individual
blog post or an author archive or category archive.
So back in our text editor, remember to make that happen for the About US link.
We just wrote an if statement to say that if the page you're currently on is about us or if the current
page has a parent of about us, then echo out a little bit of HTML that assigns this class and that
will make the link turn yellow.
So we just want to do something similar for this blog list item.
So within this opening line tag, after the I and before the greater than Simbel, let's drop in to
P and let's say only F and then what is our condition going to be?
Well, there's lots of different ways we could do this.
We could say if is home and that will evaluate to true when you are on the generic blog listing homepage
screen, however, that function will return false if you're on an individual blog post or a category
archive screen is home just by itself will not do the trick we could try is single and that will evaluate
to true on individual post screens or we could try is archive for the author and category archive screens.
Now you could use all of those different functions, but let me show you a neat way of covering all
of our bases with just one condition check.
Let's say if I get post type, it's a function, so give it its own parentheses if that equals post.
So out of the box, WordPress comes with posts and pages.
Now, a page is really just a post that has a post type that equals page and a traditional blog post
obviously has a post type of post.
Later on in the course, we will learn how to create our own custom post types for things like events
and programs and professors and campuses.
But for now, this will do the trick, because as long as the current URL and default query has to do
with post type of post, well, that obviously means it's related to our blog.
OK, so if this is true right after these parentheses, if that condition is true, we just want to
echo out a bit of HTML, so single quotes and then let's say class equals and then double quotes.
And I don't expect you to memorize the class name, but we can see it up here.
So this will apply the success that makes the link yellow.
So its current menu item.
Current menu item.
OK, and if I save that, let's test it out.
Cool.
So it's a subtle yellow, but you can see it lights up while I'm on an individual post screen and I
can go to an author archive or category archive and it stays lit up or it can even go to the main blog
home page here.
And that's actually going to bring this lesson to a close.
In our very next lesson.
We're going to be changing gears.
We're going to be diving into custom post types.
So that way we're not limited to only posts and pages.
We can create custom post types named events and programs and professors and campuses.
And this is where things will really start to pick up and feel powerful and like we're moving beyond
the basics.
Should be a ton of fun.
Let's keep things rolling and I will see you then.